spec source for provisional extensions (#695)
KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Docs: ext/cl_khr_external_memory.asciidoc

[[external-memory-properties-table]]
.List of supported buffer and image creation properties
[width="100%",cols="<33%,<17%,<50%",options="header"]
|====
| Property | Property Value | Description
| {CL_DEVICE_HANDLE_LIST_KHR}
  | {cl_device_id_TYPE}[]
      | Specifies the list of OpenCL devices (terminated with {CL_DEVICE_HANDLE_LIST_END_KHR}) to associate with the external memory handle.
|====

If {CL_DEVICE_HANDLE_LIST_KHR} is not specified as part of _properties_, the memory object created by {clCreateBufferWithProperties} or {clCreateImageWithProperties} is by default accessible to all devices in the _context_.

The properties used to create a buffer or image from an external memory handle are described by related extensions.
When a buffer or image is created from an external memory handle, the _flags_ used to specify usage information for the buffer or image must not include {CL_MEM_USE_HOST_PTR}, {CL_MEM_ALLOC_HOST_PTR}, or {CL_MEM_COPY_HOST_PTR}, and the _host_ptr_ argument must be `NULL`.

Add to the list of error conditions for {clCreateBufferWithProperties} and {clCreateImageWithProperties}:

* {CL_INVALID_DEVICE}

>   ** if a devices identified by the property {CL_DEVICE_HANDLE_LIST_KHR} is not a valid device or is not one of the devices with _context_, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ** if a device identified by the property {CL_DEVICE_HANDLE_LIST_KHR} is not a valid device or is not associated with _context_, or
```

* {CL_INVALID_COMMAND_QUEUE}
** if _command_queue_ is not a valid command-queue, or
** if device associated with _command_queue_ is not one of the devices specified by {CL_DEVICE_HANDLE_LIST_KHR} at the time of creating one or more of _mem_objects_, or
** if one or more of _mem_objects_ belong to a context that does not contain a device associated _command_queue_, or
** if one or more of _mem_objects_ can not be shared with device associated with _command_queue_.
* {CL_INVALID_EVENT_WAIT_LIST}
    ** if _event_wait_list_ is `NULL` and _num_events_in_wait_list_ is not 0, or
    ** if _event_wait_list_ is not `NULL` and _num_events_in_wait_list_ is 0, or
    ** if event objects in _event_wait_list_ are not valid events.
* {CL_EXEC_STATUS_ERROR_FOR_EVENTS_IN_WAIT_LIST} if the execution status of any of the events in _event_wait_list_ is a negative integer value.
* {CL_OUT_OF_RESOURCES} if there is a failure to allocate resources required by the OpenCL implementation on the device.
* {CL_OUT_OF_HOST_MEMORY} if there is a failure to allocate resources required by the OpenCL implementation on the host.

> To release OpenCL memory objects created from external memory handles, call the function

Author: Tracked by https://github.com/KhronosGroup/OpenCL-Docs/issues/696.

[[cl_khr_external_memory-Sample-Code]]
=== Sample Code

. Example for creating CL buffer from exported external buffer in single device context.
+
--
[source]
----
// Get cl_devices of the platform.
clGetDeviceIDs(..., &devices, &deviceCount);

// Create cl_context with just first device
clCreateContext(..., 1, devices, ...);

// Obtain fd/win32 or similar handle for external memory to be imported
// from other API.
int fd = getFdForExternalMemory();

// Create extMemBuffer of type cl_mem from fd.
cl_mem_properties_khr extMemProperties[] =
{
    (cl_mem_properties_khr)CL_EXTERNAL_MEMORY_HANDLE_OPAQUE_FD_KHR,
    (cl_mem_properties_khr)fd,
    0
};

cl_mem extMemBuffer = clCreateBufferWithProperties(/*context*/          clContext,
                                                   /*properties*/       extMemProperties,
                                                   /*flags*/            0,
                                                   /*size*/             size,
                                                   /*host_ptr*/         NULL,
                                                   /*errcode_ret*/      &errcode_ret);
----
--

> . Example for creating CL Image from exported external Image for single device usage in multi-device context

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Example for creating a CL Image from an exported external Image for single device usage in a multi-device context
```

size_t clImageFormatSize;
clGetImageInfo(img,
               CL_IMAGE_FORMAT,
               sizeof(cl_image_format),
               &clImageFormat,
               &clImageFormatSize);
----
--
. Example for synchronization using Wait and Signal
+
--
[source]
----
// Start the main rendering loop

// Create extSem of type cl_semaphore_khr using clCreateSemaphoreWithPropertiesKHR

// Create extMem of type cl_mem using clCreateBufferWithProperties or clCreateImageWithProperties

while (true) {
    // (not shown) Signal the semaphore from the other API

    // Wait for the semaphore in OpenCL, by calling clEnqueueWaitSemaphoresKHR on 'extSem'
    clEnqueueWaitSemaphoresKHR(/*command_queue*/            command_queue,
                               /*num_sema_objects*/         1,
                               /*sema_objects*/             &extSem,
                               /*sema_payload_list*/        NULL,
                               /*num_events_in_wait_list*/  0,
                               /*event_wait_list*/          NULL,
                               /*event*/                    NULL);

    // Launch kernel that accesses extMem

>     clEnqueueNDRangeKernel(command_queue, ...);

Author: OK, not going to make any changes right now, feel free to add this to the "minor issues" issue if there's anything more to do here.
